.TH "HAKUTEST\-CONFIG" "1" "2023-12-22" "github.com/shelepuginivan/hakutest" "Hakutest Manual"

.nh
.ad l

.SH "NAME"
hakutest\-config \- manage configuration for hakutest.

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
hakutest config [\fIfield\fR] [\fIvalue\fR]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Manage the configuration for Hakutest via the command line interface. It provides functionality for printing and updating configuration fields. This command has three different uses depending on the number of arguments provided.

If no arguments are provided, the command will print the entire config to the standard output.

If a single argument \fBfield\fR is provided, the command will print only the specified field of the config. It can also log an entire category by specifying the category name.

If two arguments \fBfield\fR and \fBvalue\fR are provided, the command will update the configuration by setting the specified field to the specified value. Note that it can only set primitive values and cannot modify sections of the configuration file.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
field
.RS 4
Configuration field to be printed or updated.
.RE
.PP
value
.RS 4
New value of the specified field.
.RE

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
$ hakutest config
.RS 4
Print the entire configuration.
.RE
.PP
$ hakutest config server
.RS 4
Print \fBserver\fR section of the configuration.
.RE
.PP
$ hakutest config server.port
.RS 4
Print field \fBserver.port\fR.
.RE
.PP
$ hakutest config server.port 8000
.RS 4
Set configuration field \fBserver.port\fR value to 8000.
.RE

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBhakutest-configuration\fR(7)
