.TH "HAKUTEST" "1" "2023-12-21" "github.com/shelepuginivan/hakutest" "Hakutest Manual"

.nh
.ad l

.SH "NAME"
hakutest \- reliable and efficient educational testing platform.

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
hakutest [\fIcommand\fR] [\fIargs\fR]... [\fIflags\fR]...

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Hakutest is an educational platform designed for testing. It allows you to test students, conduct quizzes, and even take exams. In other words, you can use Hakutest for every task that requires automatic answer check.

In Hakutest, each test is represented by a JSON file that is stored locally on your computer. When the Hakutest server is running, students can access the test through the browser. The platform dynamically generates a web page for each test, displaying the questions and any additional content specified in the test file.

Once students have completed the test and submitted their answers, Hakutest automatically checks their responses against the expected solutions. This automated answer checking process provides instant feedback to students. The platform evaluates each answer based on the predefined criteria set in the test file, allowing for accurate and efficient grading.

Hakutest documentation is also available at \fBhttps://hakutest.shelepugin.ru/docs/intro\fR.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.SS \-h|\-\-help
Display help message.

.SH "COMMANDS"
Hakutest functionality is divided into a number of commands.

.SS "Hakutest commands"
.PP
\fBhakutest-completion\fR(1)
.RS 4
Generate the autocompletion script for the specified shell.
.RE
.PP
\fBhakutest-config\fR(1)
.RS 4
Manage the configuration settings.
.RE
.PP
\fBhakutest-editor\fR(1)
.RS 4
Edit test files.
.RE
.PP
\fBhakutest-help\fR(1)
.RS 4
Help about any command.
.RE
.PP
\fBhakutest-import\fR(1)
.RS 4
Import test file.
.RE
.PP
\fBhakutest-server\fR(1)
.RS 4
Start Hakutest server.
.RE
.PP
\fBhakutest-statistics\fR(1)
.RS 4
Test results statistics.
.RE

.SH "FILES"
.PP
\fB$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/hakutest/config.yaml\fR
.RS 4
Configuration file.
.RE
.PP
\fB$XDG_CACHE_HOME/hakutest/tests\fR
.RS 4
Default tests directory.
.RE
.PP
\fB$XDG_CACHE_HOME/hakutest/results\fR
.RS 4
Default test results hierarchy.
.RE
