.TH "HAKUTEST\-I18N" "5" "2024-02-15" "github.com/shelepuginivan/hakutest" "Hakutest Manual"

.nh
.ad l

.SH "NAME"
hakutest\-i18n \- hakutest internationalization overview.

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This page describes the structure of Hakutest internationalization file.

Internationalization allows to change all static text of Hakutest components.

.SS Internationalization file
Hakutest configuration is stored in the \fBi18n.yaml\fR file. It can be located in the following directories:

\- $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/hakutest
.br
\- Hakutest installation directory

The internationalization file located in the Hakutest installation directory has higher priority.

.SS Default internationalization
A configuration file with default values can be created by running any of the Hakutest command. This will create a \fBi18n.yaml\fR file in the \fB$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/hakutest\fR directory.

.SS Sections of the internationalization file
Internationalization is divided into sections as follows:

.PP
\fIserver\fR
.RS 4
Hakutest internationalization for the \fBhakutest-server-applet\fR(1).

\fIstop_title\fR
.RS 4
Title of the stop menu entry.
.RE

\fIstop_tooltip\fR
.RS 4
Tooltip of the stop menu entry (Windows and macOS only).
.RE

\fI\fR
.RS 4
.RE

.RE

.PP
\fIstats\fR
.RS 4
Hakutest internationalization for exporting student results and statistics.

\fIapp\fR
.RS 4
Specifies the internationalization for the interface of \fBhakutest-statistics-gui\fR(1).

\fIlabel_test\fR
.RS 4
Label of the test selection field.
.RE

\fIlabel_format\fR
.RS 4
Label of the format selection field.
.RE

\fIlabel_directory\fR
.RS 4
Label of the export directory selection field.
.RE

\fIsubmit_text\fR
.RS 4
Text of the form submission button.
.RE

\fIcancel_text\fR
.RS 4
Text of the form cancel button
.RE

\fIselect_text\fR
.RS 4
Placeholder of the selection field.
.RE

\fIsuccess_text\fR
.RS 4
Message shown in the notification on success.
.RE

\fIerror_prefix\fR
.RS 4
Prefix of the message shown in the notification. An error itself is appended to it automatically.
.RE

.RE

\fIexcel\fR
.RS 4
Specifies the internationalization for exporting results to an Excel document.


\fItest_results_sheet\fR
.RS 4
Name of sheet with students' results.
.RE

\fIstatistics_sheet\fR
.RS 4
Name of sheet with test statistics.
.RE

\fIheader_student\fR
.RS 4
Header for the column with student names.
.RE

\fIheader_points\fR
.RS 4
Header for the column with points scored by students.
.RE

\fIheader_percentage\fR
.RS 4
Header for the column with percentage of correct answers.
.RE

.RE

\fIimage\fR
.RS 4
Specifies the internationalization for exporting results to a PNG histogram.

\fItitle\fR
.RS 4
Title of the histogram.
.RE

\fIlabel_x\fR
.RS 4
Label for histogram x-axis (Points).
.RE

\fIlabel_y\fR
.RS 4
Label for histogram y-axis (Students).
.RE

.RE

.RE

.PP
\fIweb\fR
.RS 4
Hakutest web pages internationalization.

\fIeditor\fR
.RS 4
Customizes test web editor page static text.

\fIheader\fR
.RS 4
Test editor page header.
.RE

\fIlabel_title\fR
.RS 4
Title input label.
.RE

\fIlabel_description\fR
.RS 4
Description input label.
.RE

\fIlabel_subject\fR
.RS 4
Subject input label.
.RE

\fIlabel_author\fR
.RS 4
Author input label.
.RE

\fIlabel_target\fR
.RS 4
Target audience input label.
.RE

\fIlabel_institution\fR
.RS 4
Educational institution input label.
.RE

\fIlabel_expires_in\fR
.RS 4
Expiration time input label.
.RE

\fIlabel_add_task\fR
.RS 4
Text of the button that adds new task.
.RE

\fIlabel_task_header\fR
.RS 4
Header of the task (input group).
.RE

\fIlabel_task_type\fR
.RS 4
Task type input label.
.RE

\fIlabel_task_type_single\fR
.RS 4
Single answer type label.
.RE

\fIlabel_task_type_multiple\fR
.RS 4
Multiple answers type label.
.RE

\fIlabel_task_type_open\fR
.RS 4
Open question type label.
.RE

\fIlabel_task_text\fR
.RS 4
Task text input label.
.RE

\fIlabel_task_answer\fR
.RS 4
Task correct answer input label.
.RE

\fIlabel_task_options\fR
.RS 4
Task answer options input label.
.RE

\fIlabel_task_add_option\fR
.RS 4
Text of the button that adds new answer option.
.RE

\fIlabel_add_attachment\fR
.RS 4
Add attachment checkbox label.
.RE

\fIlabel_attachment_name\fR
.RS 4
Attachment name input label.
.RE

\fIlabel_attachment_type\fR
.RS 4
Attachment type input label.
.RE

\fIlabel_attachment_type_file\fR
.RS 4
File type label.
.RE

\fIlabel_attachment_type_image\fR
.RS 4
Image type label.
.RE

\fIlabel_attachment_type_video\fR
.RS 4
Video type label.
.RE

\fIlabel_attachment_type_audio\fR
.RS 4
Audio type label.
.RE

\fIlabel_attachment_src\fR
.RS 4
Attachment source (i.e. URL) input label.
.RE

\fIlabel_upload_test_input\fR
.RS 4
Test file upload input text.
.RE

\fIlabel_upload_test_button\fR
.RS 4
Test upload button text.
.RE

\fIlabel_new_test\fR
.RS 4
Create new test button text.
.RE

\fIlabel_download_test\fR
.RS 4
Test download button text.
.RE

.RE

\fIerror\fR
.RS 4
Internationalization of the error page.

\fIheader\fR
.RS 4
Header of the error page.
.RE

\fIdetails\fR
.RS 4
Error details header (summary).
.RE

.RE

\fIexpired\fR
.RS 4
Internationalization of the expired test page.

\fIheader\fR
.RS 4
Header of the expired test page.
.RE

\fImessage\fR
.RS 4
Message with additional information.
.RE

.RE

\fIsearch\fR
.RS 4
Internationalization of the search page.

\fIinput_placeholder\fR
.RS 4
Placeholder text of the search input field.
.RE

\fIsearch_button_label\fR
.RS 4
Text of the search button.
.RE

.RE

\fIsubmitted\fR
.RS 4
Internationalization of the submission page.

\fIheader\fR
.RS 4
Header of the test submission page.
.RE

\fImessage\fR
.RS 4
Message with additional information.
.RE

.RE

\fItest\fR
.RS 4
Internationalization of the test page.

\fIstudent_name_label\fR
.RS 4
Label of student name input.
.RE

\fIopen_answer_label\fR
.RS 4
Label of open question answer input.
.RE

\fIsubmit_button_label\fR
.RS 4
Text of test solution submission button.
.RE

.RE

.SH "Example"
.PP
server:
    stop_title: Stop Hakutest
    stop_tooltip: Stop Hakutest server and quit
.br
stats:
    app:
        label_test: Test
        label_format: Format
        label_directory: Export to
        submit_text: Export
        cancel_text: Cancel
        select_text: (Select one)
        success_text: Statistics exported successfully!
        error_prefix: 'An error occurred! Detail:'
    excel:
        test_results_sheet: Test Results
        statistics_sheet: Test Statistics
        header_student: Student
        header_points: Points
        header_percentage: '%'
    image:
        title: Student Performance
        label_x: Points
        label_y: Students
.br
web:
    editor:
        header: Test Editor
        label_title: 'Title:'
        label_description: 'Description:'
        label_subject: 'Subject:'
        label_author: 'Author:'
        label_target: 'Target audience:'
        label_institution: 'Institution:'
        label_expires_in: 'Expires in:'
        label_add_task: + Add task
        label_task_header: Task
        label_task_type: 'Type:'
        label_task_type_single: Single answer
        label_task_type_multiple: Multiple answers
        label_task_type_open: Open question
        label_task_text: 'Text:'
        label_task_answer: 'Answer:'
        label_task_options: Answer options
        label_task_add_option: + Add option
        label_add_attachment: Add attachment
        label_attachment_name: 'Name:'
        label_attachment_type: 'Type:'
        label_attachment_type_file: File
        label_attachment_type_image: Image
        label_attachment_type_video: Video
        label_attachment_type_audio: Audio
        label_attachment_src: 'Source (URL):'
        label_upload_test_input: Upload test file
        label_upload_test_button: Upload and edit
        label_new_test: Create new test
        label_download_test: Download test
    error:
        header: An error occurred!
        details: Details
    expired:
        header: Test expired!
        message: This test is no longer available
    search:
        input_placeholder: Search for a test
        search_button_label: Search
    submitted:
        header: Submitted!
        message: The test results are not displayed according to the system settings
    test:
        student_name_label: 'Your name:'
        open_answer_label: 'Answer:'
        submit_button_label: Submit
.RE


.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBhakutest-app\fR(7), \fBhakutest-server-applet\fR(1), \fBhakutest-statistics-gui\fR(1), \fBhakutest-statistics\fR(1)
.PP
