.TH "HAKUTEST\-CONFIGURATION" "5" "2024-02-15" "github.com/shelepuginivan/hakutest" "Hakutest Manual"

.nh
.ad l

.SH "NAME"
hakutest\-configuration \- hakutest configuration overview.

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
hakutest config [\fIfield\fR] [\fIvalue\fR]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This page describes the structure of Hakutest configuration file.

.SS Configuration file
Hakutest configuration is stored in the \fBconfig.yaml\fR file. It can be located in the following directories:

\- $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/hakutest
.br
\- Hakutest installation directory

The configuration file located in the Hakutest installation directory has higher priority.

.SS Default configuration
A configuration file with default values can be created by running the \fBhakutest-config\fR(1) command. This will create a \fBconfig.yaml\fR file in the \fB$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/hakutest\fR directory.

.SS Sections of the configuration file
Configuration is divided into sections as follows:

.PP
\fIgeneral\fR
.RS 4
Common Hakutest settings, such as data storage directories.

\fItests_directory\fR (string)
.RS 4
Test files storage directory, absolute or relative path, environment variables are supported.
.RE

\fIresults_directory\fR (string)
.RS 4
Test results storage directory, absolute or relative path, environment variables are supported
.RE

\fIshow_results\fR (bool)
.RS 4
Show the results to the student after the submission.
.RE

\fIoverwrite_results\fR (bool)
.RS 4
Allow results to be overwritten if the same student resubmits the solution again.
.RE
.RE

.PP
\fIserver\fR
.RS 4
Settings of the Hakutest server.

\fImode\fR (release|debug|test)
.RS 4
Mode in which the server will run.
.RE

\fIport\fR (integer in range 1024 to 65535)
.RS 4
Port on which the server will run.
.RE
.RE

.RE

.SS Managing configuration.
You can manage configuration either by editing \fBconfig.yaml\fR file manually or by using the \fBhakutest-config\fR(1) command.

.SH "Example"
.PP
general:
    tests_directory: ./data/tests
    results_directory: ./data/results
    show_results: true
    overwrite_results: false
.br
server:
    port: 8080
    mode: release
.RE


.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBhakutest-app\fR(7), \fBhakutest-config\fR(1)
