.TH "HAKUTEST\-TESTS" "7" "2023-12-24" "github.com/shelepuginivan/hakutest" "Hakutest Manual"

.nh
.ad l

.SH "NAME"
hakutest\-tests \- hakutest test files structure overview.

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This page describes the structure of Hakutest test files.

.SS "Test files location"
The default Hakutest tests files location is \fB$XDG_CACHE_HOME/hakutest/tests\fR. It can be changed in the \fBhakutest\-configuration\fR(7).

.SS "Structure of the test file"
Each test is represented with a JSON file. It contains the following fields:
.RS 4
\fItitle\fR - Test title.
.br
\fIdescription\fR - Description of the test.
.br
\fIsubject\fR - Subject of the test.
.br
\fIauthor\fR - Author of the test.
.br
\fItarget\fR - Target audience of the test.
.br
\fIinstitution\fR - Educational institution.
.br
\fIcreatedAt\fR - Test creation time.
.br
\fIexpiresIn\fR - Test expiry time.
.br
\fItasks\fR - Tasks of the test.
.br
.RE

Test also has tasks, specified under the \fItasks\fR field. Each task contains the following fields:
.RS 4
\fItype\fR - Task type. Can be either of:
.br
.RS 4
\fI"single"\fR (Single answer) - The student can choose one answer from the given options.
.br
\fI"multiple"\fR (Multiple answers) - The student can choose several answers from the given options.
.br
\fI"open"\fR (Open question) - the student must write the answer in the input field.
.br
.RE
\fItext\fR - Task text (usually terms of the task)
.br
\fIoptions\fR - Answer options from which the student can choose an answer (array of strings).
.br
\fIanswer\fR - Correct answer to the task. Its form differs depending on the \fItype\fR of the task as follows:
.RS 4
\fI"single"\fR - A string representing the index of the correct option (1-indexed).
.br
\fI"multiple"\fR - Comma-separated indices of the correct options (1-indexed).
.br
\fI"open"\fR - A string representing correct answer.
.RE
.br
\fIattachment\fR - Attachment to the task.
.RE

Each task can have an attachment. It can be an image, video, audio, or file (link). Attachment contains the following fields:
.RS 4
\fIname\fR - Name of the attachment.
.br
\fItype\fR - Type of the attachment. Can be either of:
.RS
\fI"audio"\fR - Attachment of type audio.
.br
\fI"file"\fR - Attachment of type file (link).
.br
\fI"image"\fR - Attachment of type image.
.br
\fI"video"\fR - Attachment of type video.
.br
.RE
\fIsource\fR - Source of the attachment. Usually URL, can also be a base 64 string or any other format that is compatible with HTML \fIsrc\fR attribute.
.RE

.SS "Creating and editing test files"
Hakutest provides two ways of creating and editing test files:
.RS 4
\fBhakutest-editor\fR(1) - Interactive CLI test editor.
.br
Web test editor (see \fBhakutest-app\fR(7)).
.br
.RE

.SH "EXAMPLE"
Example of the test JSON file:

.EX
{
  "title": "Example test",
  "description": "Example provides better understanding of the test file structure",
  "subject": "Hakutest",
  "author": "Ivan Shelepugin <shelepuginivanm@gmail.com>",
  "target": "Hakutest users",
  "institution": "github.com/shelepuginivan/hakutest",
  "createdAt": "2023-12-24T17:13:11+0000",
  "expiresIn": null,
  "tasks": [
    {
      "type": "single",
      "text": "What format does Hakutest use for its test files?",
      "attachment": {
        "name": "Example of the image attachment",
        "type": "image",
        "src": "https://example.com/image.png"
      },
      "options": [
        "yaml",
        "json",
        "ini",
        "plain text"
      ],
      "answer": "2"
    },
    {
      "type": "multiple",
      "text": "Which attachment formats are supported in Hakutest?",
      "attachment": {
        "name": "Example of the video attachment",
        "type": "video",
        "src": "https://example.com/video.mp4"
      },
      "options": [
        "video",
        "audio",
        "image",
        "file"
      ],
      "answer": "1,2,3,4"
    },
    {
      "type": "open",
      "text": "Just enter random text",
      "answer": "random text"
    }
  ]
}
.EE

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBbase64\fR(1), \fBhakutest-app\fR(7), \fBhakutest-config\fR(1), \fBhakutest-configuration\fR(7), \fBhakutest-editor\fR(1)
