.TH "HAKUTEST\-RESULTS" "7" "2023-12-24" "github.com/shelepuginivan/hakutest" "Hakutest Manual"

.nh
.ad l

.SH "NAME"
hakutest\-results\- hakutest results files structure overview.

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This page describes the structure of Hakutest test results files.

.SS "Test files location"
The default Hakutest results files location is \fB$XDG_CACHE_HOME/hakutest/results\fR. It can be changed in the \fBhakutest\-configuration\fR(5).

.SS "Structure of the results file"
Student results are represented with text files. The actual format of these files is YAML. Each results file contains the following fields:
.RS 4
\fIstudent\fR \- Name of the student.
.br
\fIsubmittedAt\fR \- Submission time (ISO string).
.br
\fIresults\fR \- Information about student's results:
.br
.RS 4
\fIpoints\fR \- Points scored by student.
.br
\fItotal\fR \- Maximum points of this test.
.br
\fIpercentage\fR \- Percent of correctly solved tasks.
.br
\fItasks\fR \- Information about correctness of solutions for every task of the test:
.br
.RS 4
\fI<index\-of\-the\-task>\fR \- Task index (1-indexed):
.br
.RS 4
\fIanswer\fR \- Answer given by student.
.br
\fIcorrect\fR \- Correctness of the answer (boolean).
.br
.RE
.RE
.RE
\fItest\fR \- Information about the test:
.br
.RS 4
\fItitle\fR \- Title of the test.
.br
\fIauthor\fR \- Author of the test.
.br
\fIsha256\fR \- Checksum of the test file (SHA256).
.br
.RE

.SS "Results export"
Test results can be exported to various formats using \fBhakutest\-statistics\fR(1) command.

.SH "EXAMPLE"
Example of the test JSON file:

.EX
student: Ivan Shelepugin
submittedAt: 2023-12-24T17:13:11+0000
results:
    points: 4
    total: 5
    percentage: 80
    tasks:
        "1":
            answer: 1,2
            correct: true
        "2":
            answer: some text
            correct: false
        "3":
            answer: "2"
            correct: true
        "4":
            answer: "1"
            correct: true
        "5":
            answer: answer
            correct: true
test:
    title: Some Test
    author: John Doe
    sha256: 57178adbfba7abc166b0e8d342bac525ba88c7145f0921035329d8c26be8ca75
.EE

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBhakutest-config\fR(1), \fBhakutest\-configuration\fR(5), \fBhakutest-statistics\fR(1), \fBsha256sum\fR(1)
