.TH "HAKUTEST\-CONFIGURATION" "7" "2024-01-13" "github.com/shelepuginivan/hakutest" "Hakutest Manual"

.nh
.ad l

.SH "NAME"
hakutest\-configuration \- hakutest configuration overview.

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
hakutest config [\fIfield\fR] [\fIvalue\fR]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This page describes the structure of Hakutest configuration file.

.SS Configuration file
Hakutest configuration is stored in the \fBconfig.yaml\fR file. It can be located in the following directories:

\- $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/hakutest
.br
\- Hakutest installation directory

.SS Default configuration
A configuration file with default values can be created by running the \fBhakutest-config\fR(1) command. This will create a \fBconfig.yaml\fR file in the \fB$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/hakutest\fR directory.

.SS Sections of the configuration file
Configuration is divided into sections as follows:

.PP
\fIgeneral\fR
.RS 4
Common Hakutest settings, such as data storage directories.
.PP
Fields (value type is indicated in brackets):
.RS 4
\fItests_directory\fR (string) \- Test files storage directory (absolute or relative path).
.br
\fItests_results\fR (string) \- Test results storage directory (absolute or relative path).
.br
\fIshow_results\fR (bool) \- Show the results to the student after the submission.
.RE
.RE

.PP
\fIserver\fR
.RS 4
Settings of the Hakutest server.
.PP
Fields (value type is indicated in brackets):
.RS 4
\fImode\fR (release|debug|test) \- Mode in which the server will run.
.br
\fIport\fR (integer in range 1024 to 65535) \- Port on which the server will run.
.br
.RE
.RE

.PP
\fIstatistics\fR
.RS 4
Settings for exporting student results and statistics.

This section is divided into subsections for every supported statistics export format:
.PP
\fIexcel\fR
.RS 4
Settings for exporting results to an Excel document.
.PP
Fields (value type is indicated in brackets):
.RS 4
\fItest_results_sheet\fR (string) \- Name of sheet with students' results.
.br
\fIstatistics_sheet\fR (string) \- Name of sheet with test statistics.
.br
\fIheader_student\fR (string) \- Header for the column with student names.
.br
\fIheader_points\fR (string) \- Header for the column with points scored by students.
.br
\fIheader_percentage\fR (string) \- Header for the column with percentage of correct answers.
.br
.RE
.RE

.PP
\fIimage\fR
.RS 4
Settings for exporting results to a PNG histogram
.PP
Fields (value type is indicated in brackets):
.RS 4
\fItitle\fR (string) \- Title of the histogram.
.br
\fIlabel_x\fR (string) \- Label for histogram x-axis (Points).
.br
\fIlabel_y\fR (string) \- Label for histogram y-axis (Students).
.br
.RE
.RE

.RE

.PP
\fIui\fR
.RS 4
User interface customization, including configuration of different pages of the application.

See \fBhakutest-app\fR(7) for more details about application pages.

This section is divided into subsections for every page with customizable interface:
.PP
\fIeditor\fR
.RS 4
Customizes web test editor page interface.
.PP
Fields (value type is indicated in brackets):
.RS 4
\fIheader\fR (string) \- Test editor page header.
.br
\fIlabel_title\fR (string) \- Title input label.
.br
\fIlabel_description\fR (string) \- Description input label.
.br
\fIlabel_subject\fR (string) \- Subject input label.
.br
\fIlabel_author\fR (string) \- Author input label.
.br
\fIlabel_target\fR (string) \- Target audience input label.
.br
\fIlabel_institution\fR (string) \- Educational institution input label.
.br
\fIlabel_expires_in\fR (string) \- Expiration time input label.
.br
\fIlabel_add_task\fR (string) \- Text of the button that adds new task.
.br
\fIlabel_task_header\fR (string) \- Header of the task (input group).
.br
\fIlabel_task_type\fR (string) \- Task type input label.
.br
\fIlabel_task_type_single\fR (string) \- Single answer type label.
.br
\fIlabel_task_type_multiple\fR (string) \- Multiple answers type label.
.br
\fIlabel_task_type_open\fR (string) \- Open question type label.
.br
\fIlabel_task_text\fR (string) \- Task text input label.
.br
\fIlabel_task_answer\fR (string) \- Task correct answer input label.
.br
\fIlabel_task_options\fR (string) \- Task answer options input label.
.br
\fIlabel_task_add_option\fR (string) \- Text of the button that adds new answer option.
.br
\fIlabel_add_attachment\fR (string) \- Add attachment checkbox label.
.br
\fIlabel_attachment_name\fR (string) \- Attachment name input label.
.br
\fIlabel_attachment_type\fR (string) \- Attachment type input label.
.br
\fIlabel_attachment_type_file\fR (string) \- File type label.
.br
\fIlabel_attachment_type_image\fR (string) \- Image type label.
.br
\fIlabel_attachment_type_video\fR (string) \- Video type label.
.br
\fIlabel_attachment_type_audio\fR (string) \- Audio type label.
.br
\fIlabel_attachment_src\fR (string) \- Attachment source (i.e. URL) input label.
.br
\fIlabel_upload_test_input\fR (string) \- Test file upload input text.
.br
\fIlabel_upload_test_button\fR (string) \- Test upload button text.
.br
\fIlabel_new_test\fR (string) \- Create new test button text.
.br
\fIlabel_download_test\fR (string) \- Test download button text.
.br
.RE
.RE

.PP
\fIerror\fR
.RS 4
Customizes error page interface.
.PP
Fields (value type is indicated in brackets):
.RS 4
\fIheader\fR (string) \- Header of the error page.
.br
\fIdetails\fR (string) \- Error details header (summary).
.br
.RE
.RE

.PP
\fIexpired\fR
.RS 4
Customizes expired test page interface.
.PP
Fields (value type is indicated in brackets):
.RS 4
\fIheader\fR (string) \- Header of the expired test page.
.br
\fImessage\fR (string) \- Message with additional information.
.br
.RE
.RE

.PP
\fIsearch\fR
.RS 4
Customizes search page interface.
.PP
Fields (value type is indicated in brackets):
.RS 4
\fIinput_placeholder\fR (string) \- Placeholder text of the search input field.
.br
\fIsearch_button_label\fR (string) \- Text of the search button.
.br
.RE
.RE

.PP
\fIsubmitted\fR
.RS 4
Customizes submission page.
.PP
Fields (value type is indicated in brackets):
.RS 4
\fIheader\fR (string) \- Header of the submission page.
.br
\fImessage\fR (string) \- Message with additional information.
.br
.RE
.RE

.PP
\fItest\fR
.RS 4
Customizes test page interface.
.PP
Fields (value type is indicated in brackets):
.RS 4
\fIstudent_name_label\fR (string) \- Label of student name input.
.br
\fIopen_answer_label\fR (string) \- Label of open question answer input.
.br
\fIsubmit_button_label\fR (string) \- Text of test solution submission button.
.br
.RE
.RE

.RE

.SS Managing configuration.
You can manage configuration either by editing \fBconfig.yaml\fR file or using \fBhakutest-config\fR(1) command.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBhakutest-app\fR(7), \fBhakutest-config\fR(1)
